# CS_Portfolio
## CS210 - Corner Grocer
- Summarize the project and what problem it was solving.
  - This project is an item-tracking program for the imaginary company Corner Grocer. It analyzes the text records the store generates throughout the day, which contain lists of items purchased during the given day. The program then saves a backup of the analyzed data into a "frequency.dat" file and allows the user to search for items in the records, print a list of sold items and quantities, and print the same list as a histogram. This information is then used by store personnel to determine how often items are purchased and to devise a layout that is convenient for customers.
- What did you do particularly well?
  - I'm proud of the file loading and processing part of the program. The algorithm reads the file line by line and dynamically determines if a new key-value pair should be added to the map container or if an existing pair should be modified. Data storing is also memory efficient and allows for quick access when the user searches for a certain item in the data.
- Where could you enhance your code? How would these improvements make your code more efficient, secure, and so on?
  - One of the areas I can improve is file reading. On the current scale (+-100 items), loading the file is relatively quick and works for a small store, but for bigger stores, the number of items sold in a given day can be counted in tens of thousands. In such a case, reading the file line by line may take too much time. To improve this, we can make file processing asynchronous - split the file into smaller files and process them in parallel. This will reduce loading and processing time and make the program more efficient, albeit it will utilize more memory and processor time during loading.
- Which pieces of the code did you find most challenging to write, and how did you overcome this? What tools or resources are you adding to your support network?
  - The project was relatively easy for me, but the function that retrieves user input for the search option was a bit problematic. The way it was initially designed, if the previous input was not fully read or contained special characters, when selecting the "Search for Item" option from the menu, the program would immediately read what was remaining in the input buffer and wouldn't let the user input the name of the item. I used the debugger in Visual Studio to watch what the function was reading from the input buffer, which helped me identify the problem. Then, I added several lines of code to flush the input buffer before getting user input. I had used the Visual Studio debugger before, but I'm definitely keeping it in my toolbox. 
- What skills from this project will be particularly transferable to other projects or course work?
  - There are a lot of skills that I used in this project that can be applied to other projects, but working with files is definitely the easiest to transfer. Almost all software works with data in one form or another, and files are among the most convenient ways to store data. Knowing how to properly and safely open and close a file is a basic skill every programmer should have.
- How did you make this program maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
  - Two main tools that I used to make the program maintainable and extendable were classes and functions. When designing the program, I split it into two parts: the data layer and the user interface. All functions related to input data are part of the StoreSales class, it contains the loading and processing logic, displays data in various forms, and handles data searching. The other part is the user interface and main program loop. The main program loop is responsible for calling functions that show the menu, get input, and so on. By separating functionality into different parts, I made the program easier to read and modify. A programmer can now make a change inside a function and the whole program's behavior will change, avoiding the trouble of going through the whole code and changing behavior in individual places.
